Welcome to the last video of the section.
It's now time for some final considerations.
The first thing that we can do is to actually run
or build a script that we have here.
So remember that we have this built CSS script
which will compile prefix and compress our code.
So let's do that.
So I'm opening a new tab here
and running NPM
run build CSS,
and so here we go.
So it's now done doing all it's work.
So let's check it out.
So this one is the prefix style
and so as we scroll down here
you will immediately notice that there aren't any prefixes
on the CSS Grid properties
and that's because the only prefixes
that ever existed for CSS Grid
are from a very old version of the specification
in one of the very old Internet Explorer's.
So that's not really useful at all these days
and that's why the auto prefixer
turns off prefixes for Grid by default, okay.
So they're not really necessary,
they're not adding any meaning here, okay.
So what we have here is just a normal
compiled CSS where somethings
have the prefixes, but not really the CSS Grid properties.
Okay, and then of course our final CSS
is this beautiful thing here, okay.
Next another thing that I wanted to mention in this video
is that there's actually a shorthand
for defining these template rows and columns in a grid.
So if you someday encounter something like this,
so grid template
then that means that you are seeing the shorthand property.
Okay, and it works like this.
So we have the rows then the slash
and then the columns, I believe at least,
because I'm never really using the shorthand,
because I find it quite confusing to have
all of this code here in the same line of CSS.
Okay, but anyway let's deactivate
these two rows and take a look
and whoa what's going on here?
So I guess it is actually the other way around.
So first the columns and then the rows.
Let's take a look at it now,
and it still looks the same,
so I'm not really sure what's going on here.
Let's move it back,
so rows again first and columns
and let's take a look at that again.
Let's inspect all of this container
and it says here for some reason
that it's an invalid property value.
So I'm not really sure why that is.
So let me try it somewhere else.
Okay, so somewhere less
where it has a less complex grid,
so for example here.
Well this one doesn't really have rows
so let's try it here in the gallery.
Okay.
So grid template, and so first the rows
and then the columns.
Give it a save
and let's check it out
and yeah so this time it actually works,
but in fact the property is not really here
let's reload this
and what's going on here?
Ah, okay I forgot the semicolon.
Ah, yeah so finally now it's working.
So here is the grid template.
Fist the rows then the columns
and then here we go, so now it's working
and so yeah.
So if you some day stumble across
this syntax here then just know
that this is the exact same way
as having the rows with this part here
and the columns with this part.
Okay, so that's just something else
that I wanted to mention here
and something else that I wanted to mention
is that there are some things
that I think are missing in grids.
I believe we already talked about most of them
and the first thing is CSS subgrids.
So subgrids, if something were to
grid inside a grid can snap the tracks
to the parent container, so to the parent grid.
That would be something really helpful
and I believe that it's actually coming to grid
some time in the future.
Also it would be great if we could change
individual gaps, so for example
if we could specify that between line two and three
we wanted to have a different gap than the rest
of the rows or the columns.
The third and last thing that I think is missing
is a selector where we can select the
nth row and the nth column.
So for example, if we want to say that we want
just to select the second column or the second row
of a grid or all the even rows
or all the odd columns, something like this
if you wanted to do something like this
we couldn't really do it with CSS,
because the selectors right now do not exist.
So these things are what I think are missing
from CSS Grid right now.
If some day something really important happens
or changes in CSS Grid then of course
I will make sure to upload a new video
explaining what changed and give you some example of that.
So please rest assured that this course
and this section will always be kept updated by me
in case if anything important happens and changes.
Okay, and with this I think we're really done
with the section and with this project,
and I hope that you'll love CSS Grid
as much as I do it.
I will personally start using it more and more
in my projects and I hope
that I was able to teach you and to show you
how all of this works and that I could help you
to become a bit better at CSS front end web development.
All right, and that's it.
Have a nice day and see you next time.